feat: add how-to-guide on reading Google Spreadsheets (#1515)
kestra-io/docs: content/docs/15.how-to-guides/google-spreadsheets.md

---
title: Google Spreadsheets
icon: /docs/icons/tutorial.svg
---

Learn step-by-step how to read data from Google Spreadsheet in a Kestra flow.

You can use any Google Spreadsheet for this tutorial. In case you do not have Google Spreadsheet, you can:

1. Download the data from [this link](https://huggingface.co/datasets/kestra/datasets/raw/main/csv/orders.csv) and save it locally as `orders.csv` file.
2. Create a new Google Spreadsheet.
3. Navigate to the `File` menu on the top, and select `Import` option.
4. Navigate to the `Upload` tab, and click on the `Browse` button.

> 5. Select the recently created `orders.csv` file, and click on `Open` button at the buttom of the popup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Select the recently created `orders.csv` file, and click on `Open` button at the bottom of the popup.
```

6. On the `Import file` popup, choose the import location as `Replace spreadsheet` and separator type as `Detect automatically`. In this case, it does not matter whether you check or uncheck the box `Convert text to numbers, dates, and formulas`. Click on `Import data` button.
7. The contents of the file will be populated in the spreadsheet.
8. You can put an appropriate title to the spreadsheet, and name the sheet containing the order records as `orders`.

![sheet_import](/docs/how-to-guides/google-spreadsheets/sheet_import.png)

![sheet_upload](/docs/how-to-guides/google-spreadsheets/sheet_upload.png)

![sheet_import_data](/docs/how-to-guides/google-spreadsheets/sheet_import_data.png)

![sheet_uploaded_data](/docs/how-to-guides/google-spreadsheets/sheet_uploaded_data.png)

> Now that we have the spreadsheet ready, let us proceed to assign appropriate authorization for the spreadsheet. For this, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that we have the spreadsheet ready, let us proceed to assign appropriate authorization for the spreadsheet. For this:
```

1. Go to the GCP console, navigate to the [IAM service](https://console.cloud.google.com/iam-admin/iam).
2. Select `Service accounts` from the left navigation menu.
3. Click on `Create Service Account` on the top. You may choose to use an existing service account in which case you can skip the next step.
4. Put in appropriate service account name, service account id (the auto-populated value should be good to start with) and service account description, and click on `Done`.

![create_service_account_1](/docs/how-to-guides/google-spreadsheets/create_service_account_1.png)

![create_service_account_2](/docs/how-to-guides/google-spreadsheets/create_service_account_2.png)

> The new service account has been created. Lets add a key to the service account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The new service account has been created. Let's add a key to the service account.
```

1. Click on the corresponding service account from the Service Accounts page.
2. Navigate to `Keys` tab, and click on `Add Key` -> `Create new key`.
3. On the `Create private key` popup, select `JSON` option, and click on `Create`.

> 4. This will download the service account JSON file on your local computer.

Reviewer: Add a link to the service account guide we published recently too

Author: Done

5. Provide this JSON file's content as the secret.
  a. With Kestra EE, provide the secret key `GCP_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_JSON` and the file contents as the value.
  b. For docker-based Kestra instance, convert the JSON file's contents into base64 encoded format using `cat <private_key_file>.json | base64` and then provide the secret value as part of the environment file to the docker instance: `SECRET_GCP_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_JSON=<base64_encoded_value_for_json_file_contents>`.

![create_new_key](/docs/how-to-guides/google-spreadsheets/create_new_key.png)

We will now provide access to the spreadsheet for the service account.

1. Copy the email corresponding to the service account from the Service Accounts page.
2. Go to the spreadsheet, and click on the `Share` button on the top right.
3. Add the service account email in the `Add people, groups, and calendar events` text box.
4. You can give the `Viewer` access to the service account.
5. Click on `Done`.

> Let us now enable Google Sheets API in the GCP console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let us now enable the Google Sheets API in the GCP console.
```

1. On the GCP console, search for `Google Sheets API` service, or directly navigate to one using [this link](https://console.cloud.google.com/marketplace/product/google/sheets.googleapis.com).
2. Check whether the Google Sheets API is already enabled. If not, you will see an `Enable` button on the page. Click on the `Enable` button.

![enable_google_sheets_api](/docs/how-to-guides/google-spreadsheets/enable_google_sheets_api.png)

> With this, we are all set to access the Google Spreadsheet from Kestra flow. Here is how the Kestra flow would look like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this, we are all set to access the Google Sheet from Kestra flow. Here is how the Kestra flow would look like:
```

> With this, we are all set to access the Google Spreadsheet from Kestra flow. Here is how the Kestra flow would look like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this, we are all set to access the Google Spreadsheet from Kestra flow. Here is an example of how the Kestra flow might look like:
```

Detailed instructions on creating service account can also be found [here](/docs/how-to-guides/google-credentials).

![create_new_key](/docs/how-to-guides/google-spreadsheets/create_new_key.png)

We will now provide access to the spreadsheet for the service account.

1. Copy the email corresponding to the service account from the Service Accounts page.
2. Go to the spreadsheet, and click on the `Share` button on the top right.
3. Add the service account email in the `Add people, groups, and calendar events` text box.
4. You can give the `Viewer` access to the service account.
5. Click on `Done`.

Let us now enable the Google Sheets API in the GCP console.

1. On the GCP console, search for `Google Sheets API` service, or directly navigate to one using [this link](https://console.cloud.google.com/marketplace/product/google/sheets.googleapis.com).
2. Check whether the Google Sheets API is already enabled. If not, you will see an `Enable` button on the page. Click on the `Enable` button.

![enable_google_sheets_api](/docs/how-to-guides/google-spreadsheets/enable_google_sheets_api.png)

> With this, we are all set to access the Google Sheet from Kestra flow. Here is how the Kestra flow would look like:

Author: ```suggestion
With this, we are all set to access the Google Spreadsheet from Kestra flow. Here is an example of how the Kestra flow might look like:
```
